docs/learn/index.md, before:

# Learn

!!! Warning
    This content will move to the [Tutorial section](../tutorials/overview.md)

Learn how to use the TechZone Automation to provision and customize cloud resources, be it infrastructure or software, across a number of hosting environments.

## TechZone Automation Builder

The TechZone Automation Builder is a user interface that provides a catalog of common reference architectures and wizards to combine and customize them for use in hybrid-cloud environments.

**Coming soon**

## IasCable

The logic for generating automation templates in TechZone Automation Builder is provided by IasCable. IasCable has been built to convert a listing of the required capabilities of an architecture (referred to as a Bill of Materials) and generate the necessary automation to bring the architecture to life. For most use cases, TechZone Automation Builder is the recommended way to work with the automation. However, IasCable provides a more advanced level of control over the definition of the architecture.

[Learn IasCable](iascable/) - Learn how to define your own Bill of Material and use IasCable to generate the automation.

Commit message:

Adds gitops reference page (#37)
- Restructures pages in menu to address validation issues (and url navigation)
- Fixes style issues on home page (color of selected "Home" entry in menu and white "gutter")
- Updates background image on home page to align with landing page
- Replaces "TechZone Automation" with "TechZone Accelerator Toolkit"

Signed-off-by: Sean Sundberg <seansund@us.ibm.com>

docs/learn/index.md, after:

# Learn

!!! Warning
    This content will move to the [Tutorial section](../tutorials/)

Learn how to use the Toolkit to provision and customize cloud resources, be it infrastructure or software, across a number of hosting environments.

## TechZone Accelerator Toolkit Builder

The TechZone Accelerator Toolkit Builder is a user interface that provides a catalog of common reference architectures and wizards to combine and customize them for use in hybrid-cloud environments.

**Coming soon**

## IasCable

The logic for generating automation templates in TechZone Accelerator Toolkit Builder is provided by IasCable. IasCable has been built to convert a listing of the required capabilities of an architecture (referred to as a Bill of Materials) and generate the necessary automation to bring the architecture to life. For most use cases, TechZone Automation Builder is the recommended way to work with the automation. However, IasCable provides a more advanced level of control over the definition of the architecture.

[Learn IasCable](iascable/) - Learn how to define your own Bill of Material and use IasCable to generate the automation.
